That brings us to our next quick win,
which is to build a random clock.
Not as random as this gif, which I found
on the interwebs, but can we all take
a moment to appreciate that this
happened at some point in human history?
So we're gonna make something
slightly less random, but
with a little randomness going on.
So you may have seen those screen savers
where you've got like, the time showing up
and then it shows up somewhere else,
and then it shows up somewhere else.
And then it shows up somewhere else.
And it's like the most exciting
screensaver from 1993.
Like, yeah.
Well, we can do it in 2023 with
just a little bit of JavaScript.
So, okay, in this,
I'm sorry, clock index.html,
there is another little
pre-scaffolded webpage for you.
That is going to do nothing
because we haven't built it yet.
But the idea is we're gonna
turn this beautiful blank field
into the 90 screensaver of our dreams.
By using our friend math.random.
So this is another fun little
thing in the browser that we have.
Math is this built-in object in JavaScript
that has all kinds of fun tricks.
And one of the things it can do,
in addition to giving you constants,
like pi-ish, [LAUGH] is that
we can call math.random and
get a random number between 0 and 1.
So we can use that, and if we call
it again, we get a different one,
and we call it again, and
we get a different one.
We can use that to essentially
pick random values and then scale
them to a range that we're interested in,
of values that we care about.
So in this, so
it's actually clock.index.html.
So, once you kind of get in download,
we've got some.
We've got basically the same kind of
general setup the same style sheet and
everything.
We've got a super exciting
web page with like,
basically nothing in it,
except there is this clock div.
And inside of it,
there is a little p element with an id.
I wonder what that could be used for.
So we're going to basically
grab that p element.
Use our magical browser powers to get
the current time as a string cuz not every
person can immediately calculate
from milliseconds since the epoch.
[LAUGH] And
then we're going to set the text
in that paragraph to this time string.
And if you want to have a little fun
with it, randomly position it and
color it by setting a style attribute
with values for things like color.
And top and left, which are offsets
basically from, and this is a positioned
element, so it's gonna be offsets
in this little box that we've got.
And I want that to update every 3 seconds,
because I don't need to know every
second of time, but every 3 seconds is
definitely an appropriate and
normal interval of time to want, right?
So this is your mission,
should you choose to accept it,
is to make a super awesomely
old school clock screensaver.
[LAUGH]